we are in the trajectory where we are
going to obtain a Blog diagram of our
first classifier binary classifier that
is but before we do so I think it's
worthwhile kind of thinking a bit about
uh the two general Frameworks which are
present in the design of this
probabilistic models uh that will give
us the functional form of this binary
classifier so in general there are two
Frameworks the first
one both of these Frameworks involve the
posterior probability but in a kind of a
different way so the first framework is
uh called
discriminative and uh the second one is
called
generate and the difference between the
the two is quite important and they are
although they both uh effectively are
modeling in a different way at the
posterior uh let me call this posterior
y of the class small letter K given
X which as we have seen in the
probability review uh section this
posterior
is the uh x
given YK * P of YK
and uh divided
by P ofx so this is the posterior and
these two Frameworks as we will see kind
of model it a bit differently so the
discriminative uh uh uh framework we
will be discussing in uh extensively in
uh this binary classifier uh block
diagram is the one that will involve
Direct modeling of the posterior so the
discriminative I call it the first
framework and the second framework so
the first
framework so
discriminative
methods uh
model the
posterior directly
so we get this uh posterior uh from the
block diagram itself and while the
generative ones are effectively model
the posterior in Parts in its from each
kind of components so we'll first deal
with the so-called discriminative uh
classifiers and I want to
connect um the um uh earlier discussion
we had about the radar problem uh in
that kind of video we have introduced a
problem where uh we had um uh we
actually went and Drew all the areas
under the two probability distributions
that were gave raise to the probability
of mistake so I want to flip the coin
now and actually H sort of discuss the
probability of being correct not the
misclassification error but uh the U
when we when we have uh the so-called uh
true positive events and trying to
maximiz imize them instead of trying to
minimize them is classification error so
um I want to kind of come up with some
reasonably um intuitive answer to the
following question which I'm writing
over here uh
why the
importance on uh the
posterior P of YK
given
X and uh
how this is
related to our performance
metrix so if I kind of repeat this kind
of discussion but from as I said from
the uh probability of of being correct
in this kind of classification problem
we have again this kind of two integrals
but these two integrals now capture the
correct uh
events this is uh when we have
probability of Y is equal to 0 DX plus
another integral R1 probability of X
comma y = to 1 DX these are effectively
the flipped uh areas that from the ones
we have actually Drew if you want going
to go ahead and review that kind of
video that will actually be
helpful uh which is of course equal to a
summation in general for uh this is now
the general uh case where we have
Capital One to capital K in this
specific capital K is equal to
two uh but this formula that I'm
actually writing here is going to be
general for capital K
classes uh or of the integral over the
regions
RK of the so I'm replacing the joint
with the posterior times the
marginal and now it's actually a bit uh
more evident how uh maximizing P
correct
effectively uh involves
maximizing the posterior because
this term over
here is
common
and
independent of the
assignment of
x
to the
label
YK so now we have connected the
direct connection effectively that of
the probability of being correct and the
maximization trying to maximize the
probability of being correct effectively
means maximizing the posterior
probability so let me write write that
down because it's kind of
important
maximizing P
correct is equivalent to
maximizing P of y k YK given X
uh effectively
um effectively this points to the
following if we are to plot the
properity
distribution uh of uh the posterior
actually we will see here we'll see
something like
that let's plot the posterior probility
distribution we went from we went from
uh distributions at such as this if you
remember back in the
U in the discussion of the binary
classifier something like that we have
seen of
X and this is the probability of
X comma y this was the probability of X
comma Y is equal to Zer and this a
probability of X comma y isal to 1
and if we are to plot the posterior
probability uh
distribution uh we will
be coming up with uh something that it
will look like
this in general this is a very general
kind of
plot so this is one to make sure that we
do not exceed
the one probability of one so this is
the
probability of Y is equal to 0 given X
and this is the probability of Y is = to
1 given
X and
so uh the histograms uh that we have
actually um uh the histograms that the
posterior hisrs actually have come up
with uh for a given uh x0 that
uh is coming to us uh
as as a let's say a new X that we would
like to classify as positive or negative
let's say x new that we have never seen
before touches these two Curves in this
kind of two
points I actually we can actually see
here that these two points correspond to
uh the discrete so this is uh this is
the for the zeroth class and this is for
the let's say class
one this is the the probability Mass
function of the uh posterior
distribution at the output of our
predictor so this is the P of Y is equal
0 given X
new and this the probability of Y is
equal to 1 given X
new and so what we have just uh
recognized over here is that all we have
to do is we always
pick uh the uh Pro the class that gives
us the maximum uh posterior probability
output and rest assured if we do that we
are
maximizing the probability of being
correct so this discussion kind of
resulted into this kind of intuitive
conclusion but it was not really evident
initially how the posteriors and the uh
probability of being correct are
related so continuing now for uh the
discussion we just had on the
discriminative kind of classifiers I
directly model the predict the posterior
probability
we can actually write the posterior
probability as follows the Y let's say
is equal to one given X is the
probability of x given Y is = to 1 time
the probability of Y is = to
1 divided by the probability of X but we
will write this probability of x given
we have let's say two
classes or as the probability of Y is
equal to
zero uh probability of x given y to 0 *
probability of Y is equal to 0 we are
using here the sum rule of probability
that we have
reviewed uh plus the probability of x
given Y is = to 1 * the probability of Y
is equal
1 so if you divide uh both
terms uh by uh the um if we divide both
terms with
um with a pro with the
numerator we will come up with the
following expression 1 /
1+ the probability
of x given Y is equal to 1 probability
of Y is equal to 1 * ided by probability
of x given Y is equal to 0 probability
of Y is equal to 0 to the minus1
and uh
this is now related to the probability
of odds because the probability of odds
the not the probability was the odds if
we uh now write down the
odds is the ratio
of of this divided
by of divided by this so for example in
a horse race where we have a horse that
runs 100 races and wins 25 times and
loses the other 75 times the probability
of winning is 25 over 100 that's well
known to us
25% but the odds are 25 over 75 or 33%
so or one win to three losses so this is
what we have actually defined over here
in terms of our um uh
odds the probability of uh winning uh to
the probability of
losing uh so that's um uh effectively uh
if we can assign this to a positive
number uh if we assign model it as a
posst number typically we use the uh e
to the power
of some kind of positive number a to
model that uh then uh we can and uh uh
you know have effectively these two
expressions and from these two
expressions we can actually write now
the form of the posterior probability
distribution so that is the probability
of Y is equal to 1 given
X is
1/ 1 + cus
a and this is a wellknown function that
is actually called the sigmoid function
uh because it is uh when we actually
plot this
function it will look something like
that so over here will be uh
0.5 and over here will be uh the
one and it will look like a
sigmoid that will give uh will take as
input a and will provide Sigma of a and
all the output is going to be
constrained between 0 and
one so we have
effectively uh came up with this kind of
expression of the uh sort of a pro
posterior probability distribution at
the output of a sigmoidal unit with
having as argument some kind of input a
now if
uh and this is kind of motivates the
kind of logistic regression if a is a
linear combination is a linear
combination of
features let's say a is W transpose f of
x we have seen both of them
um notations in our linear regression
kind of
example
then this uh
model of the
posterior is
called
logistic
regression which is a wellknown uh and
fairly popular way to do binary
classification so effectively over here
we have
um uh the
assigned uh the to the log ODS so
another way actually of seeing it is
that if we uh take here the uh log of
the
odds in other words
the log of the uh
the
probability probability of X comma Y is
= 1 divided by the probability of
X comma Y is equal to 0 so this is going
to be uh effectively
a and if this a is equal to W transpose
f of
x this is the form of U logistic
regression so the logistic regression is
uh followed by the uh is actually
implemented using the following diagram
as it's actually indicated here first
form a linear combination of
features uh and this is the dot product
in other words between the feature
vector and the the parameters of the of
our model W and then pass that uh
through a sigmoidal unit in order to
obtain a posterior probability at the
output so we kind of obtain the logistic
regression kind of block diagram for
kind of a first principle so the block
diagram is going to
be W
transpose f of
x where we have taken X and very similar
to what we have seen in
uh logistic uh regression we went
through a featu
riser to obtain I of
X which we have used uh in this kind of
dot product to uh form a scalar a and
this scalar a is at the input of a
sigmoidal unit
Sigma and that uh y hat rest assur is
going to be the probability of Y is
equal to 1 given X so this is our
first uh
classifier uh
that we will be calling um a
generalized linear
model and we call it generalized because
of the nonlinear unit uh which is uh
definitely nonlinear because the every
sigmoidal unit can take any number from
minus one million let's say to plus one
million but it compresses that into a
dynamic R between 0 and one we
definitely want the output to be 0 and 1
because we have interpreted the output
as a pro as a posterior probability but
definitely there a nonlinear unit so
this kind of long Nan transformation
from a uh to the posterior and that's
why we call it generalized but
definitely it's a linear model uh in a
sense that it is um you know one of the
blocks of the diagram involves uh a
linear unit a linear combination of the
features FX
so all we need to do now is to attach to
it two things the first
is the binary cross entropy
loss which will accept also uh the
ground truth y this binary cross entropy
loss will be
feeding the well known to
us stochastic graded descent kind of
algorithm with it's kind of parameter
gradient calculation and parameter
update will
feed uh the
W uh and uh will update the W at every
iteration so this uh block diagram is no
surprise To Us by now we have seen it so
many times in both linear regression and
now classification and the only thing
that remains to be uh done over here is
to uh come up with a uh expression of
the Cross
entropy loss the binary cross entropy
loss with respect to the set of
parameters W and this can be shown to be
U some form such as
thisal to 1 to
M of Y
IUS y
I Pi of
XI so now we have some expression about
the uh gradient that we need in order
for us to implement sastic grade descent
and now we will see in a notebook how
the stoas r descent is powering logistic
regressor and in fact it's Al also
worthwhile commenting on how the name
kind of logistic regression came to be
attached to this kind of block
diagram and uh uh in fact fact if we
treat this binary classification problem
like a regression problem and we plot
over here the U so-called XIs uh versus
uh the Y similarly what we have seen in
so many regression problems then
definitely r y is uh uh discrete random
variable and take values between zero
let's say and one and certainly for uh
in this kind of neighborhood we'll see
many assignments to zero and in this
neighborhood remember the radar problem
High signal strength low signal strength
High signal strength mostly we will get
uh a positive uh prediction of our
attacks and uh over here we're going to
have a negative prediction of our
attacks here we're actually plotting
here the uh ground truths and uh if we
are to if we are to uh do regression to
fit this data in a very similar way as
we have done earlier probably will come
up with a kind of a straight line that
tries to uh maximize some objective kind
of function so this is uh uh straight
line regression is not going to be very
appropriate for a classification problem
because we are expecting our predictor
to uh produce values always between zero
and one so therefore what we do here is
we are applying the sigmoidal so this is
is effectively the line that generates
the uh a uh when we have no features no
featurization in this specific Syle
example and so the sigmoidal unit will
uh match
effectively the uh it has a linear
component over here and will compress
everything between zero and one so
that's another way of kind of
graphically uh remembering logistic
regression as an attempt to do
regression but um uh at the same time
with a kind of a compressive uh
step okay so now what we will do to
conclude a little bit the topic of
classification is to just in passing
quote a couple of things about the
second framework that I have mentioned
uh the soal generative classification
Frameworks in the generative
classification framework we're again
going to be uh task to calculate the
posterior uh probability
that we see
here for in general kind of K
glasses and uh this
posterior is going to
be evidently given by this General kind
of
formula so in the generative approach we
will do uh two steps instead of uh
coming up with the block diagram that
generates that uh from uh directly and
models the posterior directly as we have
done with uh logistic aggression we will
uh first uh do two steps one is to
estimate uh the uh
likelihood and the second is to estimate
the
marginal and uh then come to some degree
of approximation because it's actually
typically a very
expensive uh for large dimensions for
larg
Gen this is
uh a very
expensive calculation
so for we will typically involve some
form of
approximation uh for calculating this uh
denominator over here of the
posterior the knife
base is a famous uh generative uh
classification method and uh we actually
going to see that when we come to uh
language modeling and some other tasks
later on in some videos so I will uh
take a rain check to discuss it at that
moment and revisit if you like the
generative classification framework and
the discussion of on Bas is not really
essential right now for us to progress